---
title: "Fall '24 Week 14"
weight: 140
pre: ""
---

{{< youtube XPvcACN_8tQ >}}

#### Resources

* <a href="slides" target="_blank">Slides</a>

#### Video Script

Hello and welcome to the week 14 announcements video for CIS 527 and CC 510 in fall 2024. So remaining in this class is just a few things. The discussion for response is due tomorrow, so make sure you get that turned in. Your project proposal is due this Friday, so that's just your quick proposal for your final project. It should be about a paragraph or so. And then the rest of the class, Lab 7 and the final project are both due by the end of finals week. And then of course you'll also get some TVALs from me as well. 

So for Lab 7, I have posted Lab 7. The grading for Lab 7 is all offline. There's no interactive meeting required. You can even submit these tasks separately as you get them done. That's totally fine. For the first task, you're going to upload a zip file and a readme for your backup project. For the second task, you'll upload the URL for your monitoring system. And then for the third task, you will share us either your GitHub or your GitLab repository and the URL where your website is deployed. That's all you really have to do for Lab 7. It's kind of all or nothing. It either works or it doesn't, but it gives you a good chance to get some last-minute points for this class. As always, if you have questions on Lab 7, let us know and we are happy to help. 

So the last part of this class is working on a final project. If you haven't come up with a good final project idea yet, I encourage you to schedule some time to meet with me this week so we can chat about it. In general, I tell you to think about the thing that you've liked most in this class and kind of build upon that. The idea is it's a thought exercise. You're going to work on designing and implementing a solution for a problem. So you'll spend some time defining the background and the problem and the specs around that problem and what you want. Then you're going to propose a technical solution for that that uses system administration techniques. And then you'll do a SWOT analysis of your proposal and give us a conclusion that says hopefully that it's good. This is targeted at me as your CIO or CTO. So it can be pretty high level and pretty technical. You can assume that I kind of know what you're talking about, but really you should assume that I'm a skeptic and that I'm looking at your your project and your proposal and trying to decide if it's a good idea for our company to put resources into the solution. So you really have to convince me that you know what you're talking about. 

What you'll turn in is two things. You're gonna turn in a written report. There is a template that you can use. That template has some bullet points in it to just tell you what those paragraphs should be. Do not just use the bullet points and answer the questions. It should be in paragraph format where it's like a written report. Likewise, your SWOT analysis should not be just a bulleted list. It should be like a written out. Here's the strengths I've identified, why these are strengths, why I've highlighted them, things like that. You can include graphics and data as needed. You may also include citations as needed, so make sure you include that. So your written report is half the project. The other half the project is a presentation. Your presentation is going to be around 15 minutes of length and basically it goes through the basic high points of your written report and it's supposed to convince me that you've analyzed it well. So. Again, in a corporate setting, you would give your presentation to me. You'd hand me the written report with more details. I would review that and decide if I think it's a good idea. The last thing you're gonna do is a small prototype. The prototype should be covered in your presentation. The prototypes spend about two to four hours on it. It shouldn't be too much, but for example, if you're writing about doing some stuff in AWS, I would expect your prototype would be setting up a virtual environment in AWS just to play around with it, something like that. 

So for the presentation itself, you're going to submit a prerecorded video of your presentation. You can use tools like Zoom to create that really easily, or there's tombs in both OneDrive, or you can grab OBS, anything you'd like. You'll submit that by uploading it to Canvas, or you may have to upload the video to OneDrive if it's too large to put on Canvas. But all you have to do is record yourself and then upload that along with your written report for this project. 

So last big thing in this class, I will send out T-Vals for this class. They'll be sent out sometime during finals week. As always, I encourage you to respond to the T-Vals honestly with all your feedback. Remember that T-Vals are anonymous and I cannot access them until after grades have been submitted for this class. All comments and feedback are welcome. This class especially changes a lot over the time. It's a really different class experience, and so I'm always looking for feedback of things I can improve or do better. So please feel free to be honest on your T-Vals and let me know if you have any comments. And then once we get to finals week, final grades will be posted on Canvas by the Tuesday after finals week. I will email everybody once those are posted. If you have any concerns with your final grades, let me know and I can take a look. 

So other than that, hopefully things are going well. We've got good discussions on Discord and EdSTEM if you have questions. I also still have one-on-one office hours so I'm available anytime. Otherwise, best of luck. I hope you feel like you're getting there. You've solved the puzzle of this class. If you have any questions, just let me know. Otherwise, best of luck and I will see you in a couple of weeks. 
